What pieces can I capture?
What pieces can I trade for?
Can I win the piece(s) I just captured?
Can I win the piece(s) I just traded for?
Can I double-trade?
Can I triple-trade?
Can I trade for a piece that will give me an advantage?
What pieces can I trade for in a way that will give me an advantage?
What pieces can I capture that will give me an advantage?
What pieces can I capture that will give me an advantage even if my opponent saves the piece?
What is the goal of the game?
What is the legal move?
What are my opponent’s goals?
What move will achieve my goals?
What is my opponent’s threat?
What is my response?
How can I achieve my goal in the best possible way?
What is my opponent’s counter threat?
Is there a mate?
Is this position screaming for a sacrifice?
What pieces can I attack?
What is the threat?
What is the weakness?
What is the center?
What is the space advantage?
What is the mobility advantage?
What is the mobility deficit?
How do I control the center?
What is the king's safety?
What is the pawn structure?
What is the pawn strength?
What is the distance between pieces?
What are the weaknesses of the position?
What are the weaknesses of the pawn structure?
What are the weaknesses of the king's safety?
What's the best square for them to land on? 
How do I keep my opponent from getting them back?
In which directions can I attack?  
How can I make progress from my current position? 
What is the geometry of the position? 
Is it better to attack or to defend? 
Does my opponent have a weakness that I can attack? 
Can I threaten the king? 
Can I control key squares? 
Can I attack the castled king? 
If I lose a piece, can I get it back? 
Does my opponent have an escape square? 
Is there a passer on the board? 
Is there a check on the board? 
Can I attack a piece and cause a deflection? 
Can I create a passed pawn? 
Can I create an isolated pawn? 
Is there a tactic?
Is there a way to create a tactic?
Is there a way to turn a material advantage into a tangible result?
Is there a way to turn a positional advantage into a tangible result?
What is my opponent's plan?
Is there a way to prevent my opponent from executing his plan?
What line of attack do I have?
What squares are weak? 
What is the most important open file? 
What is the weakest square in my opponent's position?
What squares can my queen occupy? 
How can I use my rooks? 
What pieces might my opponent capture? 
What are my opponent's weak pawns? 
Where can my opponent's king move? 
Where is my opponent's king vulnerable? 
What check can I give my opponent?  
Where can I attack my opponent's king? 
How can I move my pieces to get the best of it? 
How can I exchange pieces to simplify the position? 
How can I put my opponent in zugzwang?
What pieces can I threaten to capture?
What pieces can I control? 
What pieces can I block? 
What pieces can I attack? 
What pieces should I defend? 
What material do I need to defend?
What is the minimum material I need to defend?
How can I improve my position by a half-pawn? 
How can I improve my position by a whole-pawn?
Are there any other ways to improve my position?
What is the most efficient way to improve my position?
How many ways are there for me to create the threat? 
How many ways are there for me to make the threat work?
What pieces can I put on the board that my opponent cannot capture? 
What is my opponent doing? 
What is my opponent doing poorly? 
What pieces can I trap?
Is the present position a win, a draw, or a loss?
Is my king secure?
Is my opponent's king secure?
What is the material balance?
If all pieces were traded off, who would win the pawn endgame?
Which of my pieces do I want to trade off?
Which of my opponent's pieces do I want to trade off?
What are ideal squares for my pieces?
What are ideal squares for my opponent's pieces?
Is there is a fork?
Is there a pinned piece/pawn?
Is there an overloaded piece/pawn?
Are there discovery attacks?